= ar_mailer

A two-phase delivery agent for ActionMailer

Documentation:

https://github.com/gsoni-ror/ar_mailer

Bugs:

http://armailer.unfuddle.com

== About

Even delivering email to the local machine may take too long when you have to
send hundreds of messages.  ar_mailer allows you to store messages into the
database for later delivery by a separate process, ar_sendmail. Now also allows to set priorities to the mails or skip mail from getting into the queue if required.

== Installing adzap-ar_mailer (forked)

Before installing you will need to make sure the original gem is uninstalled as they can't coexist:

  $ sudo gem uninstall ar_mailer

  Or any previous adzap-ar_mailer gem installation by 

  $ sudo gem uninstall adzap-ar_mailer

Then
  Goto your vendor/plugin directory and run 
  $ git clone git@github.com:gsoni-ror/ar_mailer.git
  and 
  $ sudo gem install gsoni-ar_mailer

For Rails 2.0, in an initializer file:

  require 'action_mailer/ar_mailer'

== Usage

Go to your Rails project:

  $ cd your_rails_project

Create the migration and model:

This shows the options which are only the model name, which defaults to Email

  ./script/generate ar_mailer -h

Then run with defaults

  ./script/generate ar_mailer

Or specify a custom model name

  ./script/generate ar_mailer Newsletter

See Alternate Mail Storage if you use a custom model name

In your mailer class methods you must be sure to set the From address for your emails.
Something like:

  def list_send(recipient)
    from 'no_reply@example.com'
    # ...

And if you want to set the mail priority, add request level variable @priority 
Something like:
  def list_send(recipient)
    @priority = 5
    # ...

@priority could be any number, ar_mailer sort mails on priority and send it in the desc order.

Just in case you want to skip any mail from getting into the queue[for Urgent mails], you can assign @priority = -1 :)

Edit config/environments/production.rb and set the delivery method:

  config.action_mailer.delivery_method = :activerecord

Or if you need to, you can set each mailer class delivery method individually:

  class MyMailer < ActionMailer::Base
    self.delivery_method = :activerecord
  end

This can be useful when using plugins like ExceptionNotification. Where it
might be foolish to tie the sending of the email alert to the database when the
database might be causing the exception being raised. In this instance you could
override ExceptionNofitier delivery method to be smtp or set the other
mailer classes to use ARMailer explicitly.

Then to run it:

  $ ar_sendmail

You can also run it from cron with -o, or as a daemon with -d.

See <tt>ar_sendmail -h</tt> for full details.

=== Alternate Mail Storage

By default ar_mailer assumes you are using an ActiveRecord model called
Email to store the emails created before sending. If you want to change
this you alter it in an intializer like so:

  ActionMailer::Base.email_class = Newsletter

=== A Word on TLS

If you are using Ruby >= 1.8.7, TLS will be enabled automatically if your
SMTP server supports it. If you do not want it to automatically enabled then
set the :tls option to false in your smtp_settings.

If you are on Ruby <= 1.8.6, then the TLS patch included in this plugin will
be loaded, so you don't need another TLS plugin to add the capability. This
patch allows you to explicit set if the server supports TLS by setting the
:tls option to true in your smtp_settings.

=== Help

See ar_sendmail -h for options to ar_sendmail.

NOTE: You may need to delete an smtp_tls.rb file if you have one lying
around.  ar_mailer supplies it own.

== Run as a service (init.d/rc.d scripts)

For Linux both script and demo config files are in share/linux.
See ar_sendmail.conf for setting up your config. Copy the ar_sendmail file
to /etc/init.d/ and make it executable. Then for Debian based distros run
'sudo update-rc.d ar_sendmail defaults' and it should work. Make sure you have
the config file /etc/ar_sendmail.conf in place before starting.

For FreeBSD or NetBSD script is share/bsd/ar_sendmail. This is old and does not
support the config file unless someone wants to submit a patch.
